# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?

  In console.rb, with property1 = Property.new({...}), property2, property3, etc.

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?

  In property.rb, within def save() method, using the sql string.

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?

  The following lines of code:
  property1.save()
  property2.save()
  property3.save()
  property1.delete()

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

  The unique id is created when the data is added as a new row to the database.

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?

  The @id instance variable is defined when the exec_prepared saves the data and returns the newly defined id from the database:
    @id = db.exec_prepared("save", values)[0]["id"].to_i

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?

  For instances created within ruby there will not be an id, because the unique id data is generated in the database. Therefore not all instances will have id data.

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?

  Some methods require all the data (e.g. show all, delete all, find) whereas some methods work on individual instances (delete, update, save).

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?

  It returns a PG::Result object, which is collection of hashes. In the save method, we access the id by going to the first index (i.e. [0]) and requesting the value for the 'id' key.

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?

  Prepared statements protect against SQL injection attacks by 'sanitising' the input into the SQL database.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?

  Property.find takes in an integer.
  Property.find_by_address takes in an string.

Q11. What are their return values?

  They return a Property class instance.
